Create create-azure-resource.md (#758)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/create-self-service-experiences/setup-backend/jenkins-pipeline/examples/create-azure-resource.md

# Create resource in Azure Cloud with Terraform

This example demonstrates how to deploy a [storage account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-overview) in Azure using Terraform templates via Port Actions.

The workflow is executed through a Jenkins pipeline.

## Prerequisites

1. Install the following plugins in Jenkins:
   1. [Azure Credentials](https://plugins.jenkins.io/azure-credentials/) - This plugin provides the `Azure Service Principal` kind in Jenkins Credentials.
   2. [Terraform](https://plugins.jenkins.io/terraform/) - This plugin provides a build wrapper that simplifies the execution of Terraform commands, such as apply, plan, and destroy.
   3. [Generic Webhook Trigger](https://plugins.jenkins.io/generic-webhook-trigger/) - This plugin enables Jenkins to receive and trigger jobs based on incoming HTTP requests, extracting data from JSON or XML payloads and making it available as variables.

## Example - creating a storage account

Follow these steps to get started:

1. Create the following as Jenkins Credentials:
    1. Create the Port Credentials using the `Username with password` kind and the id `port-credentials`.

>         1. `PORT_CLIENT_ID` - Port Client ID [learn more](https://docs.getport.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#get-api-token).

Reviewer: While the links work now, you should utilize the internal linking of the docs system.

Please change the link value to: `/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#get-api-token`

After that, verify that it works. Try to make the same use of absolute paths to other files in the docs project in the future.

The internal paths allow the linking to provide a better experience for people reading the docs, and using absolute paths (starting with `/` ) in the links makes it easier to move pages around

Author: Thank you for this explanation. It make clear the reason for internal linking.

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import PortTooltip from "/src/components/tooltip/tooltip.jsx"

# Create resource in Azure Cloud with Terraform

This example demonstrates how to deploy a storage account in Azure using Terraform templates via Port Actions.

The workflow is executed through a Jenkins pipeline.

## Prerequisites
1. Install the following plugins in Jenkins: 
   1. [Azure Credentials](https://plugins.jenkins.io/azure-credentials/) - This plugin provides the `Azure Service Principal` kind in Jenkins Credentials.

>    2. [Terraform Plugin](https://plugins.jenkins.io/terraform/)

Reviewer: Please add a short description for these two plugins as well

Author: I have added these descriptions.

   3. [Generic Webhook Trigger](https://plugins.jenkins.io/generic-webhook-trigger/)

## Example - creating a storage account

Follow these steps to get started:

1. Create the following as Jenkins Credentials:
    1. Create the Port Credentials using the `Username with password` kind and the id `port-credentials`.

>         1. `PORT_CLIENT_ID` - Port Client ID [learn more](../../../../build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#get-api-token).

Reviewer: These URLs do not work, please use absolute paths (start from `/build-your-software-catalog`) and make sure the URLs work

Author: Let me make certain all URLs work.

        2. `PORT_CLIENT_SECRET` - Port Client Secret [learn more](../../../../build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#get-api-token).
    2. Create the Azure Credentials using the `Azure Service Principal` kind and the id `azure`.

>         :::info NOTE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        :::tip
```

:::note
Keep in mind this can be any blueprint you would like and this is just an example.
:::

<details>
    <summary>Port Azure Storage Account Blueprint</summary>

```json showLineNumbers
{
    "identifier": "azureStorage",
    "title": "Azure Storage Account",
    "icon": "Azure",
    "schema": {
        "properties": {
            "storage_name": {
                "title": "Account Name",
                "type": "string",
                "minLength": 3,
                "maxLength": 63,
                "icon": "DefaultProperty"
            },
            "storage_location": {
                "icon": "DefaultProperty",
                "title": "Location",
                "type": "string"
            },
            "url": {
                "title": "URL",
                "format": "url",
                "type": "string",
                "icon": "DefaultProperty"
            }
        },
        "required": [
            "storage_name",
            "storage_location"
        ]
    },
    "mirrorProperties": {},
    "calculationProperties": {},
    "relations": {}
}
```

  </details>

> 3. Create a Port Action in the [self-service hub](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) using the following JSON definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a Port action in the [self-service hub](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) using the following JSON definition:
```

    "icon": "S3",
    "userInputs": {
        "properties": {
            "storage_name": {
                "title": "Storage Name",
                "type": "string",
                "minLength": 3,
                "maxLength": 63
            },
            "storage_location": {
                "icon": "DefaultProperty",
                "title": "Storage Location",
                "description": "storage account geo region",
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "required": [
            "storage_name"
        ],
        "order": [
            "storage_name"
        ]
    },
    "invocationMethod": {
        "type": "WEBHOOK",
        "agent": false,
        "url": "https://<JENKINS_HOST>/generic-webhook-trigger/invoke?token=<JOB_TOKEN>",
        "synchronized": false,
        "method": "POST"
    },
    "trigger": "CREATE",
    "requiredApproval": false
}
```

  </details>

4. Create the following terraform templates in a `terraform` folder in the root of your GitHub repository:
    1. `main.tf` - This file will contain the resource blocks which defines the Storage Account to be created in the Azure cloud and the entity to be createed in Port.

>     2. `variables.tf` – This file will contain the variable declarations that will be used in the resource blocks e.g. the port credentials and port run id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. `variables.tf` – This file will contain the variable declarations that will be used in the resource blocks e.g. the Port credentials and Port run id.
```

>     3. `output.tf` – This file will contain the url of the Storage Account that needs to be generated on successful completion of “apply” operation. This url will be used in the `endpoint` property when creating the Port entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. `output.tf` – This file will contain the URL of the Storage Account that needs to be generated on successful completion of an “apply” operation. This URL will be used in the `endpoint` property when creating the Port entity.
```

<details>
  <summary>Terraform `main.tf` template</summary>
  

>   ```yaml

Reviewer: Please make sure **all** codeblocks have `showLineNumbers` in them

Author: Alright then.

    provider "azurerm" {

        features {}
    }

    provider "port" {
        client_id = var.port_client_id
        secret    = var.port_client_secret
    }

    resource "azurerm_storage_account" "storage_account" {
        name                = var.storage_account_name
        resource_group_name = var.resource_group_name

        location                 = var.location
        account_tier             = "Standard"
        account_replication_type = "LRS"
        account_kind             = "StorageV2"
    }

    resource "port_entity" "azure_storage_account" {
        count      = length(azurerm_storage_account.storage_account) > 0 ? 1 : 0
        identifier = var.storage_account_name
        title      = var.storage_account_name
        blueprint  = "azureStorage"
        run_id     = var.port_run_id
        properties = {
            string_props = {
            "storage_name"     = var.storage_account_name,
            "storage_location" = var.location,
            "endpoint"         = azurerm_storage_account.storage_account.primary_web_endpoint
            }
        }

        depends_on = [azurerm_storage_account.storage_account]
    }
  ```
</details>

<details>

>   :::note

Reviewer: Move the `:::note` block underneath the `<summary>` tag, it doesn't change to how the markdown renders but it makes it easier to edit the file in the future

Author: I have moved it.

                    println(status_report_response)
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    post {

        failure {
            // Update Port Run failed.
            script {
                def status_report_response = sh(script: """
                    curl -X PATCH \
                        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
                        -H "Authorization: Bearer ${PORT_ACCESS_TOKEN}" \
                        -d '{"status":"FAILURE", "message": {"run_status": "Failed to create azure resource ${STORAGE_NAME}"}}' \
                            "https://api.getport.io/v1/actions/runs/${PORT_RUN_ID}"
                """, returnStdout: true)

                println(status_report_response)
            }
        }

        // Clean after build
        always {
            cleanWs(cleanWhenNotBuilt: false,
                    deleteDirs: true,
                    disableDeferredWipeout: false,
                    notFailBuild: true,
                    patterns: [[pattern: '.gitignore', type: 'INCLUDE'],
                               [pattern: '.propsfile', type: 'EXCLUDE']])
        }
    }
}
```

</details>

> 6. Trigger the action from the [Self-service](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) tab of your Port application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Trigger the action from the [self-service](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) tab of your Port application.
```

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Create resource in Azure Cloud with Terraform

This example demonstrates how to deploy a storage account in Azure using a Terraform template via Port Actions.

The workflow is executed through a Jenkins pipeline.

## Prerequisites
1. Install the following plugins in Jenkins: 

>    1. Azure Credentials - This plugin provides the `Azure Service Principal` kind in Jenkins Credentials.

Author: added

   2. [Terraform Plugin](https://plugins.jenkins.io/terraform/)

> 

Reviewer: Add as a prerequisite a GitHub repository to contain the Terraform template files

Reviewer: You are also using the webhook plugin for Jenkins, so it also needs to be mentioned somewhere in the doc, see the example from here:
![image](https://github.com/port-labs/port-docs/assets/9868797/23eedafa-060a-41e9-bfe6-fffea24d8a4d)

Reviewer: This is taken from the Scaffold bitbucket repositories using cookiecutter doc

Author: Alright, I have done this.

## Example - creating a storage account

Follow these steps to get started:

1. Create the following as Jenkins Credentials:
    1. Create the Port Credentials using the `Username with password` kind.
        1. `PORT_CLIENT_ID` - Port Client ID [learn more](../../../../build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#get-api-token).
        2. `PORT_CLIENT_SECRET` - Port Client Secret [learn more](../../../../build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#get-api-token).
    2. Create the Azure Credentials using the `Azure Service Principal` kind.
        1. `ARM_CLIENT_ID` - Azure Client ID (APP ID) of the application.
        2. `ARM_CLIENT_SECRET` - Azure Client Secret (Password) of the application.

>         3. `ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` - Azure Subscription ID.

Reviewer: Does Azure have some documentation guide showing where to get this information? If there, let's add a link here, same for `ARM_TENANT_ID`

Author: added

        4. `ARM_TENANT_ID` - The Azure Tenant ID.
    3. `WEBHOOK_TOKEN` - The webhook token so that the job can only be triggered if that token is supplied.

:::tip
Follow this [article](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/azure-cli-sp-tutorial-1?tabs=bash) to create a service principal in order to get the Azure credentials.
:::

> 2. Create a Port blueprint with the following properties:

Reviewer: Add a tooltip on the word blueprint, similar to how it's done in the quickstart: https://docs.getport.io/quickstart#4-set-standards-using-scorecards

Author: added

:::note
Keep in mind this can be any blueprint you would like and this is just an example.
:::

<details>
    <summary>Port Azure Storage Account Blueprint</summary>

```json showLineNumbers
{
    "identifier": "azureStorage",
    "title": "Azure Storage Account",
    "icon": "Azure",
    "schema": {
        "properties": {
            "storage_name": {
                "title": "Account Name",
                "type": "string",
                "minLength": 3,
                "maxLength": 63,
                "icon": "DefaultProperty"
            },
            "storage_location": {
                "icon": "DefaultProperty",
                "title": "Location",
                "type": "string"
            },
            "url": {
                "title": "URL",
                "format": "url",
                "type": "string",
                "icon": "DefaultProperty"
            }
        },
        "required": [
            "storage_name",
            "storage_location"
        ]
    },
    "mirrorProperties": {},
    "calculationProperties": {},
    "relations": {}
}
```

  </details>

> 3. Create Port Action from [here](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) using the following JSON definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a Port Action in the [self-service hub](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) using the following JSON definition:
```

Author: modified

:::note

> Please make sure to modify JENKINS_HOST and TOKEN placeholders to match your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to replace the placeholders for `JENKINS_URL` and `JOB_TOKEN`.
```

Author: Oh, naming it `JOB_TOKEN` is better. modified this too

:::

  <details>
  <summary>Port Action</summary>

```json showLineNumbers
{
    "identifier": "create_azure_storage",
    "title": "Create Azure Storage",

>     "icon": "S3",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "icon": "Azure",
```

Reviewer: @phalbert please apply the fix to the icon

    "userInputs": {
        "properties": {
            "storage_name": {
                "title": "Storage Name",
                "type": "string",
                "minLength": 3,
                "maxLength": 63
            },
            "storage_location": {
                "icon": "DefaultProperty",
                "title": "Storage Location",
                "description": "storage account geo region",
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "required": [
            "storage_name"
        ],
        "order": [
            "storage_name"
        ]
    },
    "invocationMethod": {
        "type": "WEBHOOK",
        "agent": false,
        "url": "https://<JENKINS_HOST>/generic-webhook-trigger/invoke?token=<TOKEN>",
        "synchronized": false,
        "method": "POST"
    },
    "trigger": "CREATE",
    "requiredApproval": false
}
```

  </details>

> 4. Create a Terraform templates in your GitHub repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a Terraform template in your GitHub repository:
```

Author: revised this

> 

Reviewer: This section requires a bit more of an explanation - outline ahead of the time what files are we going to create, why are we creating each one, and where in the repository are they expected to be

Author: That's correct. It helps to outline what the files are for. I will add this.

    }

    provider "azurerm" {

        features {}
    }

    provider "port" {
        client_id = var.port_client_id
        secret    = var.port_client_secret
    }

    resource "azurerm_storage_account" "storage_account" {
        name                = var.storage_account_name
        resource_group_name = var.resource_group_name

        location                 = var.location
        account_tier             = "Standard"
        account_replication_type = "LRS"
        account_kind             = "StorageV2"
    }

    resource "port_entity" "azure_storage_account" {
        count      = length(azurerm_storage_account.storage_account) > 0 ? 1 : 0
        identifier = var.storage_account_name
        title      = var.storage_account_name
        blueprint  = "azureStorage"
        run_id     = var.port_run_id
        properties = {
            string_props = {
            "storage_name"     = var.storage_account_name,
            "storage_location" = var.location,
            "endpoint"         = azurerm_storage_account.storage_account.primary_web_endpoint
            }
        }

        depends_on = [azurerm_storage_account.storage_account]
    }
  ```
</details>

> :::tip

Reviewer: This tip block is unnecessary, please remove

Author: I have removed it now.

                    credentialsId: 'port-credentials', 
                    usernameVariable: 'PORT_CLIENT_ID', 
                    passwordVariable: 'PORT_CLIENT_SECRET')]) {
                    script {
                        // Execute the curl command and capture the output
                        def result = sh(returnStdout: true, script: """
                            accessTokenPayload=\$(curl -X POST \
                                -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
                                -d '{"clientId": "${PORT_CLIENT_ID}", "clientSecret": "${PORT_CLIENT_SECRET}"}' \
                                -s "https://api.getport.io/v1/auth/access_token")
                            echo \$accessTokenPayload
                        """)

                        // Parse the JSON response using JsonSlurper
                        def jsonSlurper = new JsonSlurper()
                        def payloadJson = jsonSlurper.parseText(result.trim())

                        // Access the desired data from the payload
                        PORT_ACCESS_TOKEN = payloadJson.accessToken
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        

>         stage('Terraform Azure') {

Reviewer: Are both this and the `Terraform Port` steps needed? it seems like they are doing pretty much the same thing, only one doesn't echo in the middle.

Can we remove one of them?

Author: I have revised this now
